Props (#37)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: props/problem-set-timeline.checkpoint.md

# Problem Set: Timeline

## Directions

Follow the directions below.

Keep your work on your local machine, and be prepared to share your progress in small groups.

Answer the Check for Understanding questions at the end of this lesson.

## Goal

Our goal is to create a social media web app. In this web app, there is a timeline, which lists many timeline events. Timeline events are small posts that include a status message, an author, and a timestamp.

> ![Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message.](../assets/props_problem-set-timeline_example.png)  

Author: ARUURUGHSGHASG;;K it absolutely _should_ be Audrey Tang! GAH

I'll update this in another cohort.

> _Fig. Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message._

Reviewer: update caption
```suggestion
_Fig. Social media feed where a few influential folx have come together to share some wisdom!_
```

This document covers:

1. Setup Directions
1. Required Files
1. Feature Requirements
1. Check for Understanding

## Setup Directions

In your projects folder, create a new React app named `timeline`:

```bash
$ npx create-react-app timeline
```

Add the [`moment` package](https://momentjs.com/) to your project using this command:

```bash
$ yarn add moment
```

## Required Files

This project uses four components:

1. `App`
1. `Timeline`
1. `TimelineEvent`
1. `Timestamp`

And one JSON file: `src/data/timeline.json`.

Read through each code snippet. Then, create these exact same files in your own project.

<br/>

<details>

<summary>
    Replace your <code>src/App.js</code> with this
</summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> import "./App.css";
> import timelineData from "./data/timeline.json";
> import Timeline from "./components/Timeline";
> 
> function App() {
>   console.log("The value of timelineData is", timelineData);
>   console.log("We should use timelineData in our project somehow...");
> 
>   return <div></div>;
> }
> 
> export default App;

Reviewer: update quotes
```suggestion
import './App.css';
import timelineData from './data/timeline.json';
import Timeline from './components/Timeline';

function App() {
  console.log('The value of timelineData is', timelineData);
  console.log('We should use timelineData in our project somehow...');

  return <div></div>;
}

export default App;
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

      "timestamp": "2021-05-18T22:19:40Z"
    },
    {
      "person": "Aubrey Tang",
      "status": "The art of computer programming is a blend of mathematics and poetry.",
      "timestamp": "2021-05-18T22:41:19Z"
    },
    {
      "person": "Julia Evans",
      "status": "no seriously what if we replaced tech books with informative concise 30 page zines though",
      "timestamp": "2021-05-18T23:02:44Z"
    },
    {
      "person": "Stephanie Hurlburt",
      "status": "I don’t think you can do good work if you’re not at least occasionally talking to a person you’re building for.",
      "timestamp": "2021-05-18T23:09:38Z"
    },
    {
      "person": "Yan Zhu",
      "status": "//for a good time, paste this into twitter page console: c=new AudioContext;n=setInterval(\"for(n+=7,i=k,P='▲.\\\n';i-=1/k;P+=P[i%2?(i%2*j-j+n/k^j)&1:2])j=k/i;doc.innerHTML=P;with(c.createOscillator())frequency.value=200*(j+n/k^j),connect(c.destination),start(),stop(n/k)\",k=64)",
      "timestamp": "2021-05-18T23:51:01Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>
    <code>src/components/Timeline.js</code>
</summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> import "./Timeline.css";
> import TimelineEvent from "./TimelineEvent";

Reviewer: update quotes
```suggestion
import './Timeline.css';
import TimelineEvent from './TimelineEvent';
```

const Timeline = () => {};

export default Timeline;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

</details>

<details>

<summary>
    <code>src/components/Timeline.css</code>
</summary>

```css
.timeline {
  width: 30%;
  margin: auto;
  text-align: left;
}
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>
    <code>src/components/TimelineEvent.js</code>
</summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> import "./TimelineEvent.css";
> import Timestamp from "./Timestamp";

Reviewer: update quotes
```suggestion
import './TimelineEvent.css';
import Timestamp from './Timestamp';
```

const TimelineEvent = () => {};

export default TimelineEvent;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

</details>

<details>

<summary>
    <code>src/components/TimelineEvent.css</code>
</summary>

```css
.timeline-event {
  display: grid;
  grid-template: 2rem auto 2rem / 1fr 1fr;
  padding: 0.5rem;
  border-bottom: 1px solid #e6ecf0;
  background-color: #fff;
}

.timeline-event:hover {
  background-color: #f5f8fa;
}

.event-person {
  grid-area: 1 / 1 / span 1 / span 1;
  margin-top: 0.5rem;
  font-weight: bolder;
}

.event-status {
  grid-area: 2 / 1 / span 1 / -1;
}

.event-time {
  grid-area: 1 / 2 / span 1 / span 1;
  margin-top: 0.5rem;
  text-align: right;
}
```

</details>

<details>

<summary>
    <code>src/components/Timestamp.js</code>
</summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```

```js

> import moment from "moment";
> 
> const Timestamp = (props) => {
>   const time = moment(props.time);
>   const absolute = time.format("MMMM Do YYYY, h:mm:ss a");
>   const relative = time.fromNow();
> 
>   return <span title={absolute}>{relative}</span>;
> };
> 
> export default Timestamp;

Reviewer: update quotes
```suggestion
import moment from 'moment';

const Timestamp = (props) => {
  const time = moment(props.time);
  const absolute = time.format('MMMM Do YYYY, h:mm:ss a');
  const relative = time.fromNow();

  return <span title={absolute}>{relative}</span>;
};

export default Timestamp;
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

</details>

## Feature Requirements

In this assignment, modify the following three components:

1. `App`
1. `Timeline`
1. `TimelineEvent`

The `Timestamp` component is **_already fully implemented_**. You will _not_ need to modify it during this assignment.

![Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message.](../assets/props_problem-set-timeline_example.png)  

> _Fig. Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message._

Reviewer: update caption
```suggestion
_Fig. The timeline output reproduced here for convenience_
```

> ![Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message.](../assets/props_problem-set-timeline_example.png)  
> _Fig. Social media timeline web app. The top header reads "Ada Lovelace's social media feed." There are three different timeline events. Each timeline event has the timestamp "3 days ago." They also include a person's name and a status message._
> 

Reviewer: Or do we really need to reproduce this here? Does it bring that much benefit?
```suggestion
```

### `App` Component

The `App` component is a container component. It is responsible for:

- Holding the data about the timeline, which contains all timeline events.
- Rendering one instance of the `Timeline` component.
- Passing the timeline data to the `Timeline` component.

Notice that our modified `App` component imports a JSON object, and declares the object in a variable named `timelineData`:

```js
import timelineData from "./data/timeline.json";
```

### `Timeline` Component

The `Timeline` component is also a container component. It's responsible for:

> - Reading the timeline data from `App`

Reviewer: reading implies it must do something active to get it, but it's just getting passed in
```suggestion
- Receiving the timeline data from `App`
```

The `Timestamp` component expects one `prop`: `time`.

If this component receives `time` through `props` correctly, it will render the time in a nice format!

## CSS Requirement

There are no requirements around CSS and styling. The CSS classes that the sample solution uses are placed in these files:

- `src/App.css`
- `src/components/Timeline.css`
- `src/components/TimelineEvent.css`

You are **_encouraged_** to use these class names in your project.

## Check for Understanding

<!-- Question 1 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: paragraph
* id: b050b166
* title: Timeline
* points: 3
* topics: js, react
##### !question

In this assignment, which components were container components, and which components were presentational components? What are the similarities and differences of the container components and presentational components?

What was the `Timestamp` component, and why?

##### !end-question
### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: paragraph
* id: 59d2e083
* title: Timeline
* points: 3
* topics: js, react
##### !question

> In your own notes, create a diagram where there are four boxes labeled:

Reviewer: I'm not entirely clear what we're looking for here. Would the diagram be something like
```
App has an arrow to Timeline passing the events array.
Timeline has many arrows pointing to TimelineEvent, each passing a single event.
TimelineEvent has a single arrow pointing to Timestamp, passing the time of the current event.
```

Or should that last one be many arrows between TimelineEvent and Timestamp, one for each time from each event?

If either of these answers is in the vein of what you were looking for, then this prompt is probably ok, but if this isn't what you had in mind, then maybe some additional detail in the prompt would be helpful?

Author: I'll keep my eyes open to see if this direction feels ambiguous in the classroom!
